# `log-viewer`

A simple log viewer HTTP API and UI.

## Quickstart

Either install `pnpm` or `volta` locally first. Then, install dependencies and start the app:

```sh
pnpm i
pnpm dev
```

## Architecture

This monorepo consists of two apps: `api` and `ui`. Each is located in the `apps` directory.

### `api`

An `express`-based REST API that loads logs from a given file name(s).

_Log files are mocked and generated by `packages/mock-logs`._

#### `GET /logs`

Get a list of logs for a given `fileName`(s).

| Query Param | Accepted Values                                              | Required? |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| `fileName`  | A file to query for logs.                                    | `true`    |
| `from`      | A start date as an ISO datetime string.                      | `false`   |
| `to`        | An end as an ISO datetime string.                            | `false`   |
| `search`    | A query string to search for within logs.                    | `false`   |
| `offset`    | Return `limit` logs starting at `n`.                         | `false`   |
| `limit`     | How many logs to return. Defaults to `1000`. Max of `10000`. | `false`   |

```ts
{
  data: [{
    host: string;
    message: string;
    pid: string;
    process: number;
    timestamp: string; // ISO
  }],
  meta: {
    from: number;
    next: number;
    to: number;
  }
}
```

#### `GET /files`

Get a list of file names in `/var/logs` that can be queried.

```ts
{
  data: [{
    name: string;
    path: string;
    size: number; // In bytes
  }]
}
```

### `ui`

A simple React app for viewing log files, allowing those logs to be filtered by the parameters listed above.

## Todo

- [x] Generate mock logs
- [x] Return a list of valid log files
- [x] Return log contents by `fileName`
- [x] Handle no file found
- [x] Return logs contents by comma-separated `fileName` values
- [x] Break syslog entry into object for return
- [ ] Allow for `offset`
- [ ] Allow for variable `limit`
- [ ] Filter logs by `search`
- [ ] Filter logs by `from` and `to`
- [ ] Scaffold UI
- [ ] Query `GET /logs` on page load
- [ ] Add search box
- [ ] Re-query `GET /logs` when filters change
- [ ] Add start date
- [ ] Add end date
- [ ] Add back/forward pagination
- [ ] Spin up multiple APIs with different mock logs
- [ ] Query logs from multiple APIs through a single primary

## Problem statement

A customer has asked you for a way to provide on-demand monitoring of various unix-based servers without having to log into each individual machine and opening up the log files found in /var/log. The customer has asked for the ability to issue a REST request to a machine in order to retrieve logs from /var/log on the machine receiving the REST request.

## Acceptance criteria:

1. A README file describing how to run and use the service.
2. An HTTP REST API exposing at least one endpoint that can return the lines
   requested from a given log file.
3. The lines returned must be presented with the newest log events first. It is safe to
   assume that log files will be written with newest events at the end of the file.
4. The REST API should support additional query parameters which include
   a. The ability to specify a filename within /var/log
   b. The ability to filter results based on basic text/keyword matches
   c. The ability to specify the last n number of matching entries to retrieve
   within the log
5. The service should work and be reasonable performant when requesting files of
   \> 1GB
6. Minimize the number of external dependencies in the business logic code path. For example, if implementing your project with Node.js:
   a. Feel free to use Express or similar as the HTTP server as well as any of the built-in Node.js modules like fs.
   b. Please do not use external libraries for any file reads or working with the log lines after you’ve read them. We want to see your solution in this case using only what Node.js has built-in.

## Bonus points

If you finish the project early and want to add a little bit of polish, feel free to implement a basic UI to interact with the API. This can make it a bit easier for you to demo your project to us when the time comes, but isn’t required for a complete submission (we’re just as happy using curl/Postman/etc. to interact with the API).

## Only if you really want to:

If you finish the assignment early and want to challenge yourself with a bit more, there’s one additional feature you could add. Working on this part in no way affects the scoring of the project, but if you decide you want to do it anyway, it may lead to some interesting discussions during the next interview phase.

Add the ability to issue a REST request to one “primary” server which subsequently requests those logs from a list of “secondary” servers. There aren’t any hard requirements for the protocol used between the primary and secondary servers, and the architecture is completely up to you.
